Story line:
Name of Game - The Cursed Castle

IDEA (NPC could give more backstory when you talk to them? gives the player context and helps worldbuilding)

Backstory - You wake up in a dingy dungeon in a castle that was ruled by an evil sorcerer years ago, eventually overthrown by the King's Royal Guard, leaving the castle abandoned to decay. Legend has it the evil sorcerer survived and can be found in the darkest corners of the castle. Maybe that's who brought you here? But why? Who are you? Why would the sorcerer want to kidnap you?

Player is a the highest ranking Knight in the King's Royal Guard, highly trusted by the entire Royal Family. The evil sorcerer is trying to rise to power once more, he has kidnapped the player to send shockwaves through the kingdom and weaken the Royal Guard, who are they without their Commander?

NPC could be an old Minion or apprentice of the evil sorcerer, locked up in the same dungeon for not wanting to help the sorcerer rise up again, who gives you backstory and insight into how to escape, he knows the castle like the back of his hand.


Items + Description:

Key 1 - A mysterious blue key that is the first step to getting out of this awful dungeon.
Key 2 - A glowing red key that looks like it could help you open that darn door.
Key 3 - A small green key decorated with etchings of vines, it should work on the third lock on the door.
Key 4 - A shiny yellow key, looks to be made of some sort of precious metal, the final puzzle piece to leaving this horrid place.
Table - Shifty looking table that is somehow still standing. Found in the centre of the room, on it, is the matchbox and a bottle of water.
Torch - Can be found in section 6 on the wall, can be lit to reveal certain things you may have missed before.
Bottle of Water - might be helpful for making some soup, wonder if there are any recipes around...
Matchbox - found on the table, can be used to light the torch.
Crate - sealed, can open it with sword, has unknown herbs inside.
Unknown herbs - Smells quite nice, could be tasty in a soup.
Sword - found in Chest, very pointy, ouch.
Chest - unlocked and has heaps of turnips, not useful, but there seems to be a sword in there too, weird place to keep it but hey.
Bookshelf - Holds plenty of books, among them, 'Book on being wicked', 'brewing up broth - a cooking guide' which holds notes about mixing herbs and water in a lit cauldron... curious, and a personal journal, potentially belonging to the sorcerer.
Book on being wicked - contains text that says 'Mwahahahahahaha' and that's it.
brewing up broth - a cooking guide - contains many soupy recipes
journal - holds random notes and a bookmarked page that reads "the answer is the third number, minus the first, times the second, plus the first"
Statue - Holding key 2, seems to be enchanted as its eyes follow you around the room.
Cauldron - sits solemnly in the corner, missing ingredients...








Puzzles:
To unlock key 1, you need to have the matchbox and torch, light the torch to see better, and you will be able to see the key hanging up on the wall.
To unlock key 2, you need to answer a question, given to you by the statue, could be quite funny to make it 'what is the binary answer for 20 - 14?' answer is '0110' reference to Vic lol
To unlock key 3, Ask NPC for riddle, where he will give you 3 numbers, "I have these 3 numbers, 4, 2, and 7, you need to use them to result in the answer somehow.." answer is 10, the notes in journal help you find the answer.
To unlock key 4, light cauldron, add water from water bottle, add unknown herbs, once the pot comes to a boil the soup evaporates to reveal the fourth and final key.



Room outline:
1           2           3


4           5           6


7           8           9

section 1 has:
Bookshelf w/ books



section 2 has:
Exit door



section 3 has:
NPC



section 4 has:
Chest
Sword

section 5 has:
Table
Matchbox
Bottle of Water	

section 6 has:
Torch
Key 1


section 7 has:
Cauldron


section 8 has:
Statue
Key 2


section 9 has:
Crate
Unknown herbs


